# Introduction & Background

Open Cloud Mesh (OCM) is a server-to-server protocol designed to enable
federation between Enterprise File Sync and Share (EFSS) platforms.
Initially conceived of in 2015 and deployed since 2016, OCM has been
implemented by several platforms, including CERNBox, Nextcloud,
OpenCloud, ownCloud, and Seafile. This working group seeks to formally
specify OCM.

A core use case of OCM is when a user (e.g., Alice on System A) wishes
to share a resource (e.g., a file) with another user (e.g., Bob on
System B) without transferring the resource itself or requiring Bob to
log in to System A.

While this scenario is illustrative, OCM is designed to support a broader
range of interactions, including for instance file transfers and sharing
of applications.

OCM defines the exchange up to the point where other established
protocols such as WebDAV or JMAP can take over. This layered design
makes OCM flexible and agnostic to the underlying data exchange
mechanisms, enabling seamless integration between diverse systems.

The OCM specification has evolved in bursts so far, and has now grown
to a level of maturity where it will be useful to converge on a set of
features in a stable specification that all the vendors can implement
and feel confident that stability and security of the specification can
last for a number of years to come.

## Motivations

Many Internet protocols require metadata exchange such as
authentication tokens, API endpoints, or identifiers before any useful
interaction can occur. OCM tries to address this need in the context of
resource sharing and facilitates the metadata exchange needed for such
interactions. In addition, it enables users on federated systems to
connect via an invite mechanism that can leverage trusted out-of-band
networks to initiate server-to-server contact.

# Scope

The basis for the working group's efforts is the current [Open Cloud
Mesh Internet-Draft](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-lopresti-open-cloud-mesh/).

This draft outlines the general flows and structure of the protocol,
but further work is required particularly around security
considerations that will benefit from the IETF communityâ€™s broader
review and input.

The working group will **not** define new data transfer protocols or
mechanisms unrelated to server-to-server federation and metadata
exchange. Instead, established protocols such as WebDAV will be used
for actual data transfer.

OCM does not aim to address identity federation (e.g., OIDC or SAML);
rather, it leverages existing protocols for identity and authentication
where appropriate.

Importantly, OCM is **not** a competitor to user-oriented messaging or
social protocols like ActivityPub or Matrix federation, but addresses
different use cases focused on content federation and metadata
exchange.

# Deliverables

The working group will deliver one or more Internet-Drafts describing
the OCM protocol, suitable for publication as standards-track RFCs.

Depending on how the protocol evolves, it may be appropriate to
separate its functionality into multiple drafts e.g., invitations,
notifications, and sharing while other elements such as discovery,
capabilities, and restrictions could be documented in a core
specification. Alternatively, all functionality may be maintained in a
single document.
